Work Queue Slack App tutorial (#259)
temporalio/temporal-learning: docs/tutorials/typescript/work-queue-slack-app/index.mdx

---
id: index

> title: Build a Work Queue Slack App with TypeScript and Temporal and deploy it to production on a DigitalOcean Droplet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Build a Work Queue Slack App with TypeScript and deploy it to production on DigitalOcean
```

---
id: index
title: Build a Work Queue Slackbot with Temporal in Typescript
description: Learn how to build a Slash Command Slack App using Temporal to manage ork queues without a traditional database.
sidebar_label: Build a Work Queue Slackbot with Temporal in Typescript
tags:
  - typescript
  - slack-app
keywords:
  - Slash command Slack App tutorial
  - Temporal TypeScript application
  - Slack App development
  - Temporal workflows
  - Persist Slack app data
  - No database Slack app
  - Temporal signals and queries
  - Work queue management in Slack
  - Temporal Client setup
  - Interactive Slack commands
  - Temporal TypeScript SDK
  - Deploy Slack app production
  - Manage work queues without database
  - Temporal Cloud integration
  - Slack bot development
---

### Introduction

> When you're creating a Slash command Slack App, you might need to persist data between interactions.

Reviewer 2: Probably need one sentence before this with a link somewhere explaining what a "Slash command" Slack App actually is

By the end of this tutorial, you will be able to create a Slash command Slack App that responds to interactive block elements.
You will be able to implement an "entity" pattern Temporal Workflow using the Temporal TypeScript SDK to manage the state of your Slack App without a traditional database.
You will gain experience sending and handling application messages, such as Signals and Queries.
And, you will gain experience sending and handling business process Cancellation requests, and use the Continue-As-New feature.
When you're finished, you will have a fully functioning Slack App deployable to a production environment without the need for a traditional database.

## Prerequisites

Before starting this tutorial [Set up a local development environment for Temporal and TypeScript](/getting_started/typescript/dev_environment/).

Review or complete the [Run your first Temporal application with the TypeScript SDK](/getting_started/typescript/first_program_in_typescript/) tutorial to get a basic understanding of how Temporal works.

## Overview of the application

Before you start building, take a moment to understand the application and its requirements.

### Use case

> **What's the application you are building a what's the use case?**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**What's the application you are building a what's the use case?**
```

a-what's the-a I said a-what's the use case (foghorn leghorn)

The preceding diagram abstracts Slack's back end as a communication channel between the Slack App and the Slack Workspace.
The diagram could also abstract the Temporal Service as a communication channel.
However, for folks learning Temporal, it's helpful to understand that the Temporal Service is a separate service from the Temporal Application.

**Is trading off a database for Temporal worth it?**

Setting up and managing your database can be more overhead.
During the development process instead of a managing a database, you will run a Temporal Service locally alongside your Temporal Application.
You should already have it running if you completed the [Prerequisite steps](#prerequisites).
So, during development it will seem like you're managing two things instead of one.

However, after the development process, if you use Temporal Cloud as your Temporal Service, you only need to deploy the Temporal Application the same way as you would your Slack App.
Then, your Temporal Application replaces an entire database with less than 70 lines of code.

![Temporal development vs production](./images/temporal-slack-app-dev-vs-prod.svg)

> To use Temporal Cloud in production, see the [Deploy your TypeScript application to Digital Ocean](/tutorials/typescript/digital-ocean-deployment) tutorial for more information.

Reviewer 2: Don't think we need this here, it's already in the conclusion (good work on that)

### Functional requirements

**What are the functional requirements of the application?**

1. Using a Slash command, a user can submit a work request.
2. Using a Slash command, a user can see all the work requests for the channel.
3. When viewing all the work requests for the channel, a user can click a button to claim a work request.
4. When viewing all the work requests for the channel, a user can click a button to mark a work request as complete.
5. Using a Slash command, a user can delete the Work Queue for the channel.

![App functionality demo](./images/work-queue-demo.gif)

## Create a new Slack App configuration

Go to https://api.slack.com/apps?new_app=1 and create an app "From scratch." Name the app whatever you want, and select a workspace that you intend to install it to.

Once you've done this, click "Create App."

> ### Enable Socket Mode

Reviewer 2: Doesn't need to be an h3 (or even a new paragraph) imo -- I would just start the following sentence with "Next, under "Settings" in the navigation bar..."

Author: headers create anchors - anchors are important to enable deep linking directly to places in content.

I don't think we should shy away from headers just because Docusuarus TOC is jumbly - obviously not great, but if we switch away from Docusaurus we would want these headers / anchors here.

Under Settings in the navigation bar, select Socket Mode and toggle ON socket mode for this application.

![Enable Socket Mode](./images/enable-sockets.png)

When you enable Socket Mode, Slack gives you an application token that you will need when you start the app.
This token will typically start with `xapp`.
It is located under App-Level Tokens in Basic Information.

### Create a Slash Command

Select "Slash Commands" in the sidebar navigation, and click "Create New Command".
Add a new command for `/workqueue`.
Since you have Socket Mode enabled, you won't need to add a request URL.

![Create a Slash Command](./images/enable-slash-command.png)

### Subscribe to Events

Under Features in the navigation bar, select Event Subscriptions and ensure Enable Events is turned ON.

> The navigate to the section under "Subscribe to bot events" and add subscriptions for:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then navigate to the section under "Subscribe to bot events" and add subscriptions for:
```

- `message.groups`
- `message.im`
- `message.channels`

![Subscribe to bot events](./images/subscribe-to-bot-events.png)

Once you've done this, click "Save Changes"

### Set OAuth & Permissions

Under Features in the navigation bar, go to OAuth & Permissions.

You'll need to enable the following Bot Token Scopes:

- `channels:history`
- `channels:read`
- `chat:write`
- `groups:history`
- `groups:read`
- `im:history`
- `mpim:history`

> ### Install App

Reviewer 2: I think the screenshots do a good job of breaking up these sections and I would turn many/most of these h3s into just bold text, so it doesn't pollute the sidebar too much.

Author: See my comment above, after thinking about this - I think removing anchors because of the feeling of TOC pollution is not a tradeoff I would make.

After you've done this, install the app in Slack by going to Install App under Settings in the navigation bar.

### Get credentials

You will need **Signing Secret** and **App Level Token** from the Basic Information page.

> And you will need the **Bot User OAuth Token** from the Install App page, which is also available on the OAuth & Permissions page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will also need the **Bot User OAuth Token** from the Install App page, which is also available on the OAuth & Permissions page. Record all of these strings for now so you can use them to configure your app later.
```

> ## Create TypeScript projects for the Slack App

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 2 -- Create TypeScript Projects for the Slack App
```

You need two TypeScript projects for this Slack application.

> You may have already created the first one for the Temporal Application in the [Prerequisite steps](/getting_started/typescript/dev_environment/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first of these can just be named `temporal-application`. If you recently completed the [Set up a local development environment for Temporal and TypeScript](/getting_started/typescript/dev_environment/) tutorial, you can reuse that project structure. The other project should be called `bot`. You can create a new Temporal TypeScript project using `npx`:

npx @temporalio/create@latest ./bot
```

Author: I don't know of a binary for creating a Slack app to use with `npx` - 
You need to use `npm init` and `tsc init`...

Author: But I do like the rephrase

Here, make sure you have the second one for the Slack bot logic.

This tutorial assumes that your TypeScript projects will be organized like this:

```plaintext
-- your-workqueue-slack-app
  |-- temporal-application # This is the Temporal Application project
  |   |-- .env
  |   |-- src
  |   |   |-- workflows
  |   |   |   |-- workqueue.ts
  |   |   |-- index.ts
  |   |-- package.json
  |   |-- tsconfig.json
  |-- bot # This is the Slack bot project
  |   |-- .env
  |   |-- src
  |   |   |-- index.ts
  |   |-- package.json
  |   |-- tsconfig.json
  |-- common-types # These types are shared by both projects
      |-- types.ts
```

This tutorial uses `npm` as the package manager.

```
npm init
```

> And ensures there is a `tsconfig.json` file in each project root.

Author: Yes, it is necessary afaik to use `npm init + tsc --init` - this isn't a temporal app - and there isn't an official npx for Slack apps (afaik...)

```
tsc --init
```

### Dependencies for the projects

**Temporal Application dependencies**

> In the `temporal-application` project, you will need the following dependencies in your `package.json`:

Reviewer 2: I'd recommend removing these `package.json` snippets and replacing them with the relevant `npm i` commands to add the necessary packages, since this tutorial is meant to produce an end-to-end result and we're not cloning anything down. Stick to what's necessary (if anything) after the `npx` install route, that way we can cut this section down and make it more linear.

```json
{
  // ...
  "dependencies": {
    "@temporalio/worker": "^1.10.1",
    "dotenv": "^16.1.3",
    "path": "^0.12.7"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "@types/node": "^20.14.7",
    "ts-node": "^10.9.2",
    "typescript": "^5.4.5"
  }
  // ...
}
```

**Slack bot dependencies**

In the `bot` project, you will need the following dependencies in your `package.json`:

```json
{
  // ...
  "dependencies": {
    "@slack/bolt": "^3.19.0",
    "@slack/web-api": "^6.12.0",
    "@temporalio/client": "^1.7.4",
    "crypto": "^1.0.1",
    "date-fns": "^3.6.0",
    "dotenv": "^16.0.3"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "@types/node": "^20.14.7",
    "ts-node": "^10.9.2",
    "typescript": "^5.4.5"
  }
  // ...
}
```

### Environment variables

> First, make sure you have `.env` added to your `.gitignore` file to avoid committing your credentials.

Reviewer 2: Need another sentence here (or rearrange this section slightly) so it's introduced better -- "Your application will be using your Slack tokens to authenticate. You should not commit these to your project repository. Instead, store them in an `.env` file in your project root, and add that `.env` file to a `.gitignore` file in the project root so that they will not be accidentally committed.

Author: Nice.

> **Slack bot environment variables**

Reviewer 2: I would actually just change this to a sentence but keep the bolding: "In the project root of the **bot** application,"

Grab the [Slack credentials](#credentials) you got from the Slack App configuration and add them to a `.env` file in the `bot` project:

```plaintext
SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET="<slack-signing-secret>"
SLACK_BOT_TOKEN="<slack-bot-token>"
SLACK_APP_TOKEN="<slack_app_token>"

> SLACK_WORKSPACE="<slack_workspace>"

Reviewer 2: A user won't necessarily know what to enter for the Workspace since it isn't provide in a token form like the others -- how do they look it up?

ENV="dev"
```

Also add your Slack Workspace and an `ENV` variable.
The `ENV` variable is prepended to the Task Queue name for your Temporal Application.
This enables you to use the same Temporal Namespace locally and in production without worrying about production Tasks getting executed on your local machine.

> **Temporal Application environment variables**

Reviewer 2: Remove and make the below sentence more strongly worded (see above) -- we can also look into different color coding for when you have to run commands or edit configs in different environments, I find that helpful.

In the `temporal-application` project, make sure you have a `.env` file and for now, just add the `ENV` variable:

```plaintext
ENV="dev"
```

> ### Define commone types

Reviewer 2: I'm OK keeping this as an h3

Create a file `types.ts` in the `common-types` directory and define a Work Item data object and its statuses:

<!--SNIPSTART typescript-slack-app-common-types-->

[docs/tutorials/typescript/work-queue-slack-app/code/common-types/types.ts](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal-learning/blob/edu-2636-workqueue-slackbot-tut/docs/tutorials/typescript/work-queue-slack-app/code/common-types/types.ts)

```ts
export interface WorkqueueData {
  id: string;
  timestamp: string;
  channelName: string;
  channelId: string;
  userId: string;
  work: string;
  status: WorkqueueStatus;
  claimantId?: string;
  // Add more properties as needed
}

export enum WorkqueueStatus {
  Backlog = 1,
  InProgress = 2,
  Done = 3,
}
```

<!--SNIPEND-->

> ## Work Queue Workflow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 3 -- Creating a Work Queue Workflow
```

One of the problems with the sidebar headers right now is that some of them are descriptions of what you're actively doing and some are just noun phrases -- we should stick to the former category as a style point.

Before you start building the Slack bot, you need to create a Temporal Workflow to persist the state of the Work Queue.

> This Workflow will be "long living" and any given instance of it will map directly to a specific Slack channel.

Reviewer 2: I would not scare quote this -- explain it either with ellipses or a link that explains the Entity Workflow pattern as it pertains to Temporal.

This pattern is often referred to as the "Entity Workflow" pattern.

This is in contrast to a "Sequence pattern" where the Workflow is expected to execute a set of steps and then return.

> Our "Entity pattern" Workflow won't ever return except to return a "Cancellation" error when it receives a Cancellation request.

Reviewer 2: This however is great clarifying detail and is scoped exactly right

> ![Sequence vs Entity pattern Workflow](./images/sequence-vs-entity-pattern.svg)

Reviewer 2: This might belong in a different reference document, it's a strange thing to encounter mid-tutorial imo.

Author: noted

Other very common use cases for an entity pattern Workflow are:

- Customers
- Shopping carts
- Orders
- Users

In fact, depending on the goal of the business process, you might find it convenient to represent any significant long living object as an Entity Workflow.
This could especially be true if that object needs to be accessed by a distributed set of services.

> ### Craft the Entity pattern

Reviewer 2: Don't need this h3 (especially if we excise some of the previous section into a reference page).

The Temporal TypeScript SDK comes with a handy `condition` API.
You can use this to await on a specific condition before continuing.

In this case the Workflow awaits on a [Continue-As-New](https://docs.temporal.io/workflows#continue-as-new) suggestion from the Temporal Service.
This is a suggestion to essentially create a new instance of the Workflow with a fresh Event History because the current one is too large.

> When we continue the Workflow as a new one, we pass the existing Work Queue data to the new Workflow instance.

Reviewer 2: Careful with we/you inconsistency -- I prefer using "you" throughout.

    // If a Cancellation request exists, the condition call will throw the Cancellation error
    await condition(() => workflowInfo().continueAsNewSuggested);
  } catch (e) {
    // Catch a Cancellation error
    if (isCancellation(e)) {
      // Set the Workflow status to Cancelled by throwing the CancelledFailure error
      throw e;
    } else {
      // Handle other types of errors
      throw e;
    }
  }
  await continueAsNew<typeof workqueue>(wqdata);
}
```

<!--SNIPEND-->

What is also handy about the `condition` API is that if a Cancellation request is made to the Workflow, the condition call will throw a Cancellation error.

In the context of Temporal, the code above will create a Workflow Execution that stays running until it is explicitly told to stop.

### Send data in and out of the Workflow

Next, you will want to define and handle Signals and Queries.

**[Signals](https://docs.temporal.io/encyclopedia/application-message-passing#signals)** are a way to send data into a Workflow.
**[Queries](https://docs.temporal.io/encyclopedia/application-message-passing#queries)** are a way to read the state of a Workflow.

> It is a good practice to define the Signals and Queries outside of the Workflow and handle them right after declaring local state variables within the Workflow.

Reviewer 2: This section is good (and I'd keep it as an h3), my only comment is I don't have a clear idea of *what* signals and queries are actually being sent to this application at this point, only that it has to talk to Slack.

export const addWorkToQueueSignal =
  defineSignal<[WorkqueueData]>("addWorkqueueData");
export const claimWorkSignal =
  defineSignal<[{workId: string; claimantId: string}]>("claimWork");
export const completeWorkSignal =
  defineSignal<[{workId: string}]>("completeWork");

export async function workqueue(existingData?: WorkqueueData[]): Promise<void> {
  // ...
  // Register a Query handler for 'getWorkqueueData'
  setHandler(getWorkqueueDataQuery, () => {
    return wqdata;
  });

  // Register the Signal handler for adding work
  setHandler(addWorkToQueueSignal, (data: WorkqueueData) => {
    wqdata.push(data);
  });

  // Register Signal handler for claiming work
  setHandler(claimWorkSignal, ({workId, claimantId}) => {
    const workItem = wqdata.find((item) => item.id === workId);
    if (workItem) {
      workItem.claimantId = claimantId;
      workItem.status = 2;
    }
  });

  // Register Signal handler for completing work
  setHandler(completeWorkSignal, ({workId}) => {
    const index = wqdata.findIndex((item) => item.id === workId);
    if (index !== -1) {
      wqdata.splice(index, 1);
    }
  });
  // ...
}
```

<!--SNIPEND-->

> ### Test the Workflow with Jest framework

Reviewer 2: I'm tempted to suggest moving this out of Step 3 to an optional Step 5 (entirely dedicated to testing) after the more interesting part of the application is finished, *unless* we were to talk about actually mocking up the Slack API calls here so we could see which data is being sent/tested.

Author: I like this idea.

```ts
// ...
test("should add work to the queue", async () => {
  // Get a test environment Temporal Client
  const {client, nativeConnection} = testEnv;
  // Create a test environment Worker
  const worker = await Worker.create(
    workflowCoverage.augmentWorkerOptions({
      connection: nativeConnection,
      taskQueue: "test",
      workflowsPath: require.resolve("../workflows"),
    })
  );
  // ...
  // Run the Worker
  await worker.runUntil(async () => {
    const handle = await client.workflow.start(workqueue, {
      args: [],
      workflowId: workflowId,
      taskQueue: "test",
    });
    const workItem: WorkqueueData = {
      // ...
    };
    // Add work to the queue
    await handle.signal(addWorkToQueueSignal, workItem);
    // Check to see if the data is there
    const result = await handle.query(getWorkqueueDataQuery);
    // Compare the data
    expect(result).toContainEqual(workItem);
  });
});
```

<!--SNIPEND-->

For more test examples, see the Work Queue Workflow test file by clicking the link above the preceeding code snippet.

> ## Slack bot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 4 -- Putting Together your Slack Bot
```

This Slack App assumes that the Slack channel name is unique and therefor can be used as the Workflow ID.

<!--SNIPSTART typescript-slack-app-bot-workqueue-module {"selectedLines":["133-148"]}-->

[docs/tutorials/typescript/work-queue-slack-app/code/bot/modules/workqueue.ts](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal-learning/blob/edu-2636-workqueue-slackbot-tut/docs/tutorials/typescript/work-queue-slack-app/code/bot/modules/workqueue.ts)

```ts
// ...
// Delete the Work Queue for the channel with a Cancellation Request
export async function deleteWorkqueue(
  command: SlackCommandMiddlewareArgs["command"],
  say: SayFn
): Promise<void> {
  const workflowId = command.channel_name;
  try {
    const handle = temporalClient.workflow.getHandle(workflowId);
    await handle.cancel();
    console.log(`Workflow with ID ${workflowId} has been cancelled.`);
    await reply(say, `Work Queue has been deleted for this channel.`);
  } catch (error) {
    console.error(`Failed to cancel workflow with ID ${workflowId}:`, error);
    await reply(say, `Failed to delete Work Queue for this channel.`);
  }
}
```

<!--SNIPEND-->

> By using the Slack channel name as the Workflow ID, it becomes easy to know which Workflow corresponds to which channel in the Temporal UI if you need to do any debugging.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By using the Slack channel name as the Workflow ID, you can tell which Workflow corresponds to which channel in the Temporal UI if you need to do any debugging.
```

  await replyEphemeral(
    respond,
    "Work Queue cannot display",
    formatWorkqueueDataForSlack(channelName, data)
  );
}

// Create a new Work Queue for the channel if one does not exist
async function createNewWorkQueue(workflowid: string): Promise<void> {
  try {
    await temporalClient.workflow.start("workqueue", {
      taskQueue: `${process.env.ENV}-temporal-iq-task-queue`,
      workflowId: workflowid,
    });
  } catch (e) {
    if (e instanceof WorkflowExecutionAlreadyStartedError) {
      console.log("Workflow already started");
    } else {
      throw e;
    }
  }
}

// Read the state of the Work Queue for the channel using a Query
async function queryWorkQueue(
  workflowId: string,
  say: SayFn
): Promise<WorkqueueData[]> {
  try {
    const handle = temporalClient.workflow.getHandle(workflowId);
    const result = await handle.query<WorkqueueData[]>(getWorkqueueDataQuery);
    console.log("Current workqueue data:", result);
    return result;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error querying workqueue data:", error);
    await say("An error occurred while Querying the Work Queue.");
    return [];
  }
}
```

<!--SNIPEND-->

> In the preceeding snippet, the `createNewWorkqueue` function attempts to start a new Work Queue Workflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the preceding snippet, the `createNewWorkqueue` function attempts to start a new Work Queue Workflow.
```

If there is a Workflow already running for the channel, it will catch the WorkflowExecutionAlreadyStartedError, but ignore it and continue.

> The `queryWorkqueue` function then sends a Query the Work Queue Workflow for the channel and returns the data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `queryWorkqueue` function then sends a Query to the Work Queue Workflow for the channel and returns the data.
```

      await signalCompleteWork(channelName, workId, message, userId, say);
    } else {
      console.error("Action value is undefined.");
    }
  }
);
```

<!--SNIPEND-->

Then, in the `workqueue.ts` module, define a function `completeWork` that sends a Signal to the Work Queue Workflow to mark the work item as complete.

<!--SNIPSTART typescript-slack-app-bot-workqueue-module {"selectedLines":["216-231"]}-->

[docs/tutorials/typescript/work-queue-slack-app/code/bot/modules/workqueue.ts](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal-learning/blob/edu-2636-workqueue-slackbot-tut/docs/tutorials/typescript/work-queue-slack-app/code/bot/modules/workqueue.ts)

```ts
// ...
export async function signalCompleteWork(
  channelId: string,
  workId: string,
  message: GenericMessageEvent,
  userId: string,
  say: SayFn
) {
  try {
    const handle = temporalClient.workflow.getHandle(channelId);
    await handle.signal(completeWorkSignal, {workId});
    console.log(`Work item ${workId} marked as complete`);
    await reply(say, `<@${userId}> Work item ${workId} marked as complete.`);
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Failed to signal complete work:", error);
  }
}
```

<!--SNIPEND-->

> 

Reviewer 2: A big missing piece here is actually running this here and showing some kind of sample output -- feels like we skipped the payoff from going right to "here's how we write all these complicated code steps" to a Conclusion.

Author: D'oh.
Ya totally!
